Kaituo forecasting (#10133)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _observing-your-data/forecast/api.md

| `result_index_min_size`       | integer             | Optional | Minimum primary shard size (in MB) to trigger index rollover.                                                                                |
| `result_index_min_age`        | integer             | Optional | Minimum index age (in days) to trigger rollover.                                                                                             |
| `result_index_ttl`            | integer             | Optional | Minimum age (in days) before rolled-over indexes are deleted.                                                                                |
| `flatten_custom_result_index` | boolean             | Optional | If `true`, flattens nested fields in the custom result index for easier aggregation.                                                         |
| `shingle_size`                | integer             | Optional | The number of past intervals used to influence the forecast. Defaults to `8`. Recommended range: 4–128.                                      |

> ### Example request: single-stream forecaster

Author: ```suggestion
### Example request: Single-stream forecaster
```

| `threshold`, `relation_to_threshold` | Mixed | Conditional | Required only if `build_in_query` is `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE`. |
| `filter_query` | Query DSL | Optional | A custom query used when `filter_by=CUSTOM_QUERY`. |
| `subaggregations` | Array | Optional | A list of nested aggregations and sort options to compute additional metrics within each bucket. |

### Example request: Built-in query for narrow confidence intervals

The following request returns the top forecasted entities ranked by the narrowest confidence intervals:

```json
POST _plugins/_forecast/forecasters/AG_3t4kBkYqqimCe86bP/results/_topForecasts
{
  "split_by": "service",
  "filter_by": "BUILD_IN_QUERY",
  "build_in_query": "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH",
  "forecast_from": 1691008679297
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example response

```json
{
  "buckets": [
    {
      "key": { "service": "service_6" },
      "doc_count": 1,
      "bucket_index": 0,
      "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH": 27.655361
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```

### Example request: Built-in query with threshold

> The following request returns entities whose forecast values fall farthest below a user-defined threshold:

Author: ```suggestion
The following request returns entities whose forecast values fall below a user-defined threshold:
```

#### Example response

```json
{
    "buckets": [
        {
            "key": {
                "service": "service_6"
            },
            "doc_count": 1,
            "bucket_index": 0,
            "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH": 27.655361
        },
        {
            "key": {
                "service": "service_4"
            },
            "doc_count": 1,
            "bucket_index": 1,
            "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH": 1324.7734
        },
        {
            "key": {
                "service": "service_0"
            },
            "doc_count": 1,
            "bucket_index": 2,
            "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH": 2211.0781
        },
        {
            "key": {
                "service": "service_2"
            },
            "doc_count": 1,
            "bucket_index": 3,
            "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH": 3372.0469
        },
        {
            "key": {
                "service": "service_3"
            },
            "doc_count": 1,
            "bucket_index": 4,
            "MIN_CONFIDENCE_INTERVAL_WIDTH": 3980.2812
        }
    ]
}
```

### Example request: Built-in query with distance under a threshold

> The following request returns the top entities whose forecast values fall farthest under a specified threshold, based on the `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE` metric:

Author: ```suggestion
The following request returns the top entities whose forecast values fall farthest from a specified threshold, based on the `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE` metric:
```

```http
POST _plugins/_forecast/AG_3t4kBkYqqimCe86bP/results/_topForecasts
{
  "split_by": "service",                      // group forecasts by the "service" entity field
  "filter_by": "BUILD_IN_QUERY",              // use a built-in ranking metric
  "build_in_query": "DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE",
  "forecast_from": 1691008679297,             // data_end_time of the first forecast in scope
  "threshold": -82561.8,                      // user-supplied threshold
  "relation_to_threshold": "LESS_THAN"        // keep only forecasts below the threshold
}
```

#### Example response

The `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE` metric calculates `forecast_value – threshold`. Because `relation_to_threshold` is `LESS_THAN`, the API returns negative distances only and sorts them in ascending order (most negative first). Each bucket includes the following values:

- `doc_count`: The number of forecast points that matched.

> - `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE`: The worst (most negative) distance within the forecast horizon.

Author: ```suggestion
- `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE`: The largest distance within the forecast horizon from the threshold value.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

The following response returns the `DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE`:

```

      "DISTANCE_TO_THRESHOLD_VALUE": -83561.8
    }
  ]
}
```

### Example request: Custom query and nested aggregations

The following request uses a custom query to match services by name and ranks them by the highest forecast value:

```json
POST _plugins/_forecast/AG_3t4kBkYqqimCe86bP/results/_topForecasts
{
  "split_by": "service",
  "forecast_from": 1691018993776,
  "filter_by": "CUSTOM_QUERY",
  "filter_query": {
    "nested": {
      "path": "entity",
      "query": {
        "bool": {
          "must": [
            { "term": { "entity.name": "service" } },
            { "wildcard": { "entity.value": "User*" } }
          ]
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "subaggregations": [
    {
      "aggregation_query": {
        "forecast_value_max": {
          "max": { "field": "forecast_value" }
        }
      },
      "order": "DESC"
    }
  ]
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example response

```json
{
  "buckets": [
    {
      "key": { "service": "UserAuthService" },
      "doc_count": 24,
      "bucket_index": 0,
      "forecast_value_max": 269190.38
    },
    ...
  ]
}
```
---

## Profile forecaster

**Introduced 3.1**  
{: .label .label-purple }

> Returns execution-time state such as initialization progress, per-entity model metadata, and errors. This API is useful for inspecting forecaster internals during runtime.

Author: ```suggestion
Returns execution-time state such as initialization progress, per-entity model metadata, and errors. This API is useful for inspecting forecaster intervals during runtime.
```
